The US Geological Survey has responded to a social media query on whether it is safe to roast marshmallows over a volcanic vent.

The answer is no.

Kilauea in the US state of Hawaii is one of the world's most active volcanoes and it has been very active in recent weeks.

With its red-hot rivers of lava have destroyed dozens of homes on Hawaii's Big Island, with 2,000 people being told to leave their properties.

Jay Furr from Richmond, Vermont asked the US government department whether it would be safe to roast marshmallows over volcanic vents using a long stick.
Skip Twitter post by @jayfurr
Report

End of Twitter post by @jayfurr

The US Geological Survey's Volcanoes Twitter account, which posts official updates and information on volcanoes in the US, responded to Mr Furr's query, saying that such an experiment would lead to a "bad taste" and a "pretty spectacular reaction".

They said it would not be safe and advised people to not try to do so.

Last week, people in Hawaii were warned about toxic fumes produced when molten rock flows into the ocean.
Skip Twitter post by @USGSVolcanoes
Report

End of Twitter post by @USGSVolcanoes

Kilauea is an extremely active volcano and its present eruption began 35 years ago,

    How many people do volcanoes kill?
    Vog? Laze? Volcano terminology explained

A growth of volcanic activity in recent weeks has meant that it has quite literally been erupting in people's backyards.

Only one serious injury has been reported, after a man was hit by projectile molten rock as he sat on his balcony.
Media captionLava flows have destroyed dozens of houses
Related Topics

    Volcanoes
    Twitter
    United States
    Hawaii
    Social media

Share this story About sharing

    Email
    Facebook
    Messenger
    Twitter
    Pinterest
    LinkedIn

More on this story

    Hawaii volcano: How many people do volcanoes kill?
    27 May 2018
    Video Kilauea volcano: Hawaii homes destroyed by lava
    26 May 2018
    Video Hawaiian volcano: What are vog and laze?
    23 May 2018
    Hawaii volcano: Warning of toxic gas plumes from Kilauea
    21 May 2018

US & Canada
ABC drops Roseanne show after racist tweet

    29 May 2018
    From the section US & Canada 

Full article ABC drops Roseanne show after racist tweet
Missouri governor in sex scandal resigns

    30 May 2018
    From the section US & Canada 

Full article Missouri governor in sex scandal resigns
Hurricane Maria 'killed 4,600 in Puerto Rico'

    29 May 2018
    From the section US & Canada 

Full article Hurricane Maria 'killed 4,600 in Puerto Rico'
Top Stories
North Koreans dare to criticise 'vampire leader'

Two ordinary citizens in North Korea speak to the BBC, despite the threat of death or imprisonment.
4 hours ago
ABC drops Roseanne show after racist tweet
4 hours ago
Trump China tariffs could come in June
8 hours ago
Features
The sign language lawyer who became a social media star

South Africans' anger over land set to explode

The boys on the ice
A suitcase full of photographic wonder

Video
'We're not the DJs' girlfriends'

Angels and devils battle it out at Bolivian festival

Surprising benefits of working in a second language
Paris plans to cut pollution

Will Canada commercialise surrogacy?

Most Read

    1 Seventeen hurt as Dartford Arriva bus ploughs into cars
    2 Russia's opposition journalist Arkady Babchenko shot dead in Kiev
    3 ABC drops Roseanne show after racist tweet
    4 Newspaper headlines: 'End of cold call menace' and Serena's catsuit
    5 'Don't toast marshmallows on Hawaii volcano' says US government
    6 North Koreans dare to criticise 'vampire leader'
    7 Roseanne Barr's five most controversial moments
    8 Caroline Lucas to step down as Green Party co-leader
    9 Ex-EDL leader Tommy Robinson jailed at Leeds court
    10 Flash-flooding brings parts of London and Kent to standstill


